In this lab we told that we need to power on the devices and then configure them.
Per these instructions something to click on Write a one when I click on see a lie I'm told that the
device needs to be powered on
so I'm going to power on the device and go back to see a lie.
And as you can see here the device is booting
I'll do something similar with writer to turn it on and then go to see a line.
The device is also booting up to this point when a Cisco router boots up for the first time a system
configuration dialog is displayed.
We don't want to use that.
So I'm going to type no and press enter to bypass the initial configuration dialog.
The initial configuration dialog is a wizard that allows you to configure basic settings on Cisco devices.
We don't want to do that at the moment I'm in user mode.
I'm going to type enable to go to privilege mode and then type confetti to go to global configuration
mode so enable configured terminal or confetti takes me to global configuration.
Now these devices have names right a one and write it to the prompts show Rhoda.
So the first thing I'm going to do is configure the router as writer 1 and as I write it to in the exam
it'll be very clear whether you need to change the device names of the devices.
But one of the first things you're going to want to do is configure the Device name now that we've configured
the host names.
The next step is to configure IP addresses as shown in the diagram show IP interface brief shows us
the interfaces on the devices.
This interface needs to be configured with this IP address ten dot wandered wandered one slash 24 now
before we can figure the IP address.
Notice of the interface is shut down.
Cisco riders by default have their interfaces shut down.
So you need to go into interface gigabit zero slash zero slash zero and use the command.
No shutdown or no shut to enable the interface or bring the interface up on the side.
We can see something similar.
Show IP interface brief notice of this interface is shut down.
Now what you'll notice is I'm using abbreviated commands.
So rather than typing configure terminal I'll often just type confetti and rather than typing interface
gigabit 0 slash 0 slash 0.
What I'll do is type int gig 0 slash 0 slash 0 or I'll type int g and press tab to get gigabit and then
top the rest of the command use a command like no shut rather than no shut down to enable an interface
get used to typing abbreviated commands.
It's going to save you a lot of time.
So at the moment both these interfaces are up up but no IP address is configured on the interface so
interface gigabit 0 slash 0 slash 0 IP address is going to be 10 1 1 1 and then we need to specify a
subnet mask.
Now 255 is the decimal equivalent of eight binary ones.
We are told to use 24 binary ones here.
So it's eight plus eight plus eight which is 24 binary ones.
So as an example show run interface gigabit zero slash zero slash zero on a real router shows us the
configuration of that interface but that doesn't work on packet tracer so I'll use the command show
run.
So there's the configuration of gigabit 0 slash zero slash zero show IP interface gigabit zero slash
zero slash zero shows us the IP address in this notation.
So that's a nice way to check that you've done it right.
On the side interface gigabit to zero slash zero slash a zero IP address 10 1 1 2 subnet mask slash
24 show IP interface gigabit zero slash zero slash zero this command shows us the IP address of the
device after the moment show OP only shows the local IP address in the OP cache of the device but hopefully
at this point I'll be able to ping Radha to which I can.
The first ping is lost because the writer needs to do an OP for the mac address of Radha to so show
up now shows us that the local writer Radha one has learnt the MAC address of wrote it to that's associated
with this IP address on the side show up thus Radha has learnt the MAC address of Radha one so paying
10 1 1 1 writer 2 can ping write a 1 so we've successfully configured IP addresses as shown in the diagram
and the writers can ping each other now we need to configure and enable password of Cisco notice on
Route 1 when I log into the console no password is required and when I type enable note password is
required we want to change that by using the command enable password Cisco.
So now when I type exit and log back in and type enable notice I'm asked for the enabled password if
I type disable and then enable again I'm asked for the privilege or enable password to get into the
right to notice the password is shown in clear text in the running config.
In other words anyone can see what the password is and that's why we asked to encrypt the enabled password
before I do that I'll configure and enabled password on write it to on write it to when I type enable
to go from user mode to privilege mode or enable mode I'm not asked for a password so enable password
Cisco exit out of the router type enable now I have to enter the password password is shown in clear
text.
So now let's encrypt the enabled password
on Route 1 we use the command service password encryption show run.
Notice the password is now encrypted.
This is a very weak password that stops people watching over your shoulder from learning what the password
is so after the moment password is in clear text service password encryption
show run password is now encrypted we then asked to configure a secret password of Cisco ONE TWO THREE.
SO quantity enable and for this command we need to use secret specify the password as Cisco ONE TWO
THREE.
SO show run shows us that we have both and enable password configured as well as a secret password.
Notice the secret password is using empty five hashing by default so you don't have to try and encrypt
that it's done automatically.
When I type in able now I have to enter the secret password secret passwords override enable passwords.
So on the side I'll set the secret password exit out of the router.
And when I log back in again I need to enter the secret password.